maybe the family computer just can't
handle fortnite or minecraft the way you
want
or
maybe you've just been pulled into the
rise and hype either way you want a sick
new build to crush the competition
so armed with our 900 u.s budget and our
sponsorship from nvidia geforce and msi
thanks guys we're going to be putting
together just that
[Music]
when assembling a computer a static free
workstation is a must i use a gamer's
nexus mod mat and an anti-static ankle
strap with me as always then are my
multi-bit screwdriver my parts tray my
side cutters my needle nose pliers and
of course a pickaxe
for our processor we chose the ryzen 5
3600 non-x variant it delivers great
gaming performance all but eliminating
potential bottlenecking so your geforce
graphics card can reach its full
potential and it has the multi-threaded
horses to tackle light to moderate
prosumer workloads and don't forget
because all rise and chips are unlocked
for overclocking you should be able to
get a little bit of extra mileage out of
it as it ages you can check out our
video where anthony gave the ins and
outs of ryzen overclocking up here when
installing the cpu hold it by the edges
and identify the corner with the gold
triangle
align that with the corner of the socket
that also has a triangle
lift up the retention arm
place the cpu into the socket no force
is required here it should just fall
into place
if it doesn't make sure that the
retention arm is all the way up and
reset the cpu
you can make sure it's all the way in by
looking at it from the side there should
be no gap between the plastic of the
socket and the substrate of the
processor once you've done that go ahead
and lower the retention arm
if you really want to push your cpu to
its limits you'll need a beefier cooler
to handle the extra heat but the ryzen 5
3600 does come with an included wraith
stealth cooler which will be enough for
anyone who's looking to run at stock
speeds or even do some very light
overclocking remove the plastic cover
that's keeping the pre-applied thermal
paste protected
if you damage your thermal paste like
we're pretending that we did you can
also just apply a dollop of your own
thermal paste like so the one thing to
remember here guys is that it's thermal
pad or thermal paste
not both
next remove these brackets from the
motherboard
then screw the wraith cooler screws
directly into the cpu backplate thread
them in lightly then tighten them down
in a cross pattern
for the finishing touch don't forget to
plug the fan lead in you can technically
use any plug on the motherboard that you
want but if you use the cpu one you
won't end up with an annoying error
message when you boot up the system
choosing our system memory or ram was
really simple we just fired up our own
video explaining how different ram
speeds affect performance on amd's ryzen
platform you can check that video out
here or you can just save yourself 10
boring minutes and pick up a pair of
these t-force delta rgb sticks they're
not the only good choice but this 16 gig
3 000 megahertz kit is a great balance
between price performance and of course
that rgb goodness and they're using
samsung dies right now which is
important for peak performance and
compatibility on ryzen
so pull back the tabs on these two ram
slots then position each dim so that the
notch on the bottom lines up with the
notch in the socket
press firmly until the tabs on either
end snap back into place on their own
then repeat this procedure if you have
another kit with that said unless you
need the extra capacity for heavy
workloads one dim per channel is
generally recommended for better
stability
for our build we wanted fast storage and
a lot of it an intel delivered with the
exceptionally affordable 660p nvme ssd
which can usually be found for under a
hundred dollars for a terabyte of m.2
storage poor hard drives
never knew would hit him
install the standoff that's included in
the motherboard box in the hole that
lines up with the end of your ssd
then slide the ssd into the m.2 slot
until it's fully seated push down the
other end and secure the ssd with the
included screw
now before you put all your new hardware
in your case i always recommend that you
verify that the system posts or outputs
to the display we're going to use
everyone's favorite free test bench your
motherboard box
so what you do is get your graphics card
your power supply and all that good
stuff on here then use your screwdriver
to short out the power pins like
so
some motherboards actually have built-in
onboard buttons just for this purpose
but ours isn't so fancy this time around
once your system posts you can check
that everything is detected and detected
correctly you can see there's all 16
gigs of our ram our cpu shows up
correctly so ours worked out of the box
but if yours doesn't it's possible that
you have a defective or incompatible
component on your hands that's why we do
this ahead of time so you don't have to
extract it from the rest of your system
now it's also possible though that you
just need to update the motherboard
firmware or bios because many of the 400
series motherboards on the market were
manufactured before
third gen ryzen cpus were available amd
has a whole page on their website about
this and they've actually got a program
where they'll even lend you an older cpu
in order to update before resorting to
that though maybe check with the
retailer you bought it from to see if
they can help
now
it's case time
well
we're going to take that off and stash
it back in the box for safe keeping
you can set the thumb screws aside with
the rest of the included hardware
next remove the opposite side panel by
removing these two screws
and sliding the panel towards the rear
now guys the spec 05 from corsair may
not look like much but it's got ample
intake space on the front and the bottom
panel and a simple but effective layout
for cooling we're going to be pulling
air in from the front of the case and
exhausting it out the back the front
panel has space for three 120 millimeter
fans or two 140s if we take out the
three and a half inch drive cage
poor hard drives
they never knew what hit him
and each one of these is gonna need four
screws we opted for the lower mounts
since we want that fresh air coming in
right over our graphics card but if you
are carrying some hard drives over from
your previous system you can leave the
cage and simply move your fans up we
went with some arctic f12 120 millimeter
fans now you could probably just use the
included fan uh maybe pulling air in
from the front and then blowing that
fresh air over the graphics card but it
wouldn't be optimal remember kids heat
is bad
for our motherboard we chose the gaming
plus max b450 from msi
why
well because it's fine it has an m.2
slot for our storage a gen 3 pci express
16x slot for our graphics card and
black and red it matches our case before
we install it though we need to put in
the io shield now it won't ruin your
build if you forget it but you know 100
completion right guys press firmly on
the four corners of the shield until
they snap into place
[Music]
then
our case has integrated atx motherboard
standoffs so all we need to do is hold
the motherboard by the heatsink and set
it down like so before using the case's
included m3 screws to fasten it down
here here here here here here here and
here
pro tip by the way guys to make your
life easier now is the time to connect
the front power and reset switches and
both the power and drive activity leds
right here you should also do front usb
3 and audio here
and here
now if cable management is important to
you now is also the time to route these
cables around the back of the
motherboard tray to power our rig we
chose the evga 700 gd it's gold
certified and you can find it for under
70 bucks
now fully modular would have been a nice
to have feature but it costs 10 to 15
dollars more without having any real
impact on performance so we left it out
this time around slide the power supply
into its home with the fan facing down
it'll draw fresh air in through the
bottom of the case which is filtered and
exhausted out the rear of the chassis
creating its own thermal environment
separate from the rest of your system
then fasten the psu in place with the
included 632 screws
[Music]
we can now connect all our cables so
you'll want to run the 8-pin connector
behind the motherboard tray for it to
come out here
and then plugs in right here
the 24 pin connector goes into here and
then plugs in right here
make sure that you go all the way until
it clicks by the way and our single
8-pin pci express power cable routes in
here and then up through here
and
that's it for power oh speaking of power
i've got a powerful thirst building
computers ain't easy so don't forget to
hydrate
[Music]
lttstore.com we settled on msi's ventus
oc rtx 2060 6gb graphics card now it may
only have a 1.8 overclock but it's got a
bigger dual fan cooler than nvidia's
reference design and a slick looking
plastic back plate all without breaking
the bank start by removing these two pci
slot covers
[Music]
align the graphics card carefully with
both the motherboards pci express slot
and the openings at the back of the case
then making sure that the tab on the
back of the slot is open push the card
in firmly until the tab snaps shut
then you can put your case screws back
in
finally we can plug the 8-pin pci
express power connector that we cable
managed earlier
now this side of the case is thankfully
completely opaque so whatever mess you
make on the back side will be completely
hidden
with that said
these cable tie loops and the included
zip ties will go a long way towards
pinning everything down and making it
easier to replace the side panel
the one thing that you can't hide is the
large mess of wires that are left over
from our power supply so if you take
some time and neatly wrap these cables
up it'll be worthwhile from a dust
gathering perspective anyway
[Music]
so with that done secure any loose
cables to your liking then close up the
case your build is done time to set it
up now i'm just kidding
it's bad jeebies to close the panel of a
case before you install windows so we're
going to do that later
while we fire up the machine let's talk
through our peripheral choices here so
this is the dell s2419 hdf and it's a
great match for an rtx 2060. it's 1080p
144 hertz it happens to be g-sync
compatible and it's got one millisecond
response times as for our keyboard and
mouse we're not going to talk too much
about those because we've actually got
some budget keyboard and mouse roundups
coming so make sure you're subscribed so
you don't miss them
oh cat's out of the bag we've already
got windows on here now moving on to
bios setup
on any newer platform it is important to
download the latest ua5 bios from the
manufacturer website and flash it using
a usb drive once that's done all we need
to do is go into our axmp set profile 1
press f10
and
enter i mean i guess while we were in
there we can also make sure that our
intel ssd is our first priority for
booting that way once windows is
installed or linux you're not going to
find any judgment here you won't have to
go back into the uefi bios to adjust
this our next step is to use microsoft's
tool to create a bootable usb drive and
then reboot the system while mashing f8
immediately to get to the boot device
selection menu where we can choose that
drive once the setup process has begun
it's basically just a matter of hitting
next next next next until you land on
the windows desktop
once we're there we head to the msi
website to download the latest drivers
for our chipset audio and networking
devices etc then we head to nvidia's
page for our latest graphics drivers
install your preferred game launcher of
choice or launchers i mean it is 2019
and then boom creeper gotcha
what kind of performance can you expect
from a machine like this
well that is looking real nice so we are
getting anywhere in the neighborhood of
low hundreds to
125 130 fps in this game really liking
it and of course the animation
smoothness is absolutely
we're running oh wait no
as for witcher 3 which is a bit of an
older aaa title we've got this cranked
to ultra everything and we're still
getting right around the neighborhood of
you know 90 to 100 fps see ya see ya see
ya see
yeah that's fine it's not that important
to me whoa look at that look at him go
so at this point i think it's safe to
say that we can put our side panel on
and call our build complete so in terms
of what you can expect from a machine
like this 100 plus fps at 1080p in most
modern titles unless you absolutely
crank the details so that means with one
of these you can feel free to you know
frag out and hard carry mid with your
adc or whatever or just enjoy minecraft
with rtx on which
unironically
looks really really cool so thanks to
nvidia for sponsoring this video and of
course a shout out to msi amd intel evga
corsair team group and dell for
providing the other hardware that we
showed